feat(docs): rework RSC docs to use server actions by default (#32481)
expo/expo: docs/pages/guides/server-components.mdx

}
```

> In order to render this as a server component, you'll need to return it from a server action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To render this as a server component, you'll need to return it from a server action.
```

Let's remove the wordiness

## Secrets

Server Components can access secrets and server-side APIs. You can use the `process.env` object to access environment variables. You can ensure a module never runs on the client by importing the `server-only` module in your project.

```tsx actions/renderData.tsx
// This will assert if the module runs on the client.
import 'server-only';

import { Text } from 'react-native';

export async function renderData() {
  // This code only runs on the server.
  const data = await fetch('https://my-endpoint/', {
    headers: {
      Authorization: `Bearer ${process.env.SECRET}`,
    },
  });

  // ...
  return <div />;
}
```

You can define the secret in your **.env** file:

```text .env
SECRET=123
```

> You do not need to restart the dev server to update environment variables. They are automatically reloaded on every request.

## Platform detection

To detect which platform your code is bundled for, use the `process.env.EXPO_OS` environment variable. For example, `process.env.EXPO_OS === 'ios'`. Prefer this to `Platform.OS` as `react-native` is not fully optimized for React Server Components yet and won't work as expected.

> You can detect if code is running in the server by performing a `typeof window === 'undefined'` check. This will always return `true` on client devices and `false` on the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can detect if code is running on the server by performing a `typeof window === 'undefined'` check. This will always return `true` on client devices and `false` on the server.
```

## Testing with jest

> Library authors can test their modules support Server Components by using `jest-expo`. Learn more in the [testing react server components guide](/guides/testing-rsc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Library authors can test their modules support Server Components by using `jest-expo`. Learn more in the [Testing React Server Components](/guides/testing-rsc) guide.
```

## Metadata

React Server Components are a feature of React 19. To enable them, Expo CLI automatically uses a special canary build of React on all platforms. In the future, it will be removed when React 19 is enabled by default in React Native.

As a result, you can use React 19 features such as placing `<meta>` tags anywhere in your app (web-only).

```tsx app/index.tsx
export default function Index() {
  return (
    <>
      {process.env.EXPO_OS === 'web' && (
        <>
          <meta name="description" content="Hello, world!" />
          <meta property="og:image" content="/og-image.png" />
        </>
      )}
      <MyComponent />
    </>
  );
}
```

You can use this instead of the `Head` component from `expo-router/head`, but it only works on web for now.

> ## Known limitations

Reviewer: It'll be ideal to move this limitation section at the end of the document. It's a good pattern in general when scanning a document from a reader's eye and something we also follow in other documents.

> This is a very early technical preview that we're actively developing.

- Expo Snack does not support bundling Server Components.
- EAS Update does not work with Server Components yet.
- DOM components cannot use Server Actions yet.
- Production deployment is very limited and not recommended yet.
- Server Rendering RSC payloads to HTML is not supported yet. This means static and server output doesn't fully work yet.

> - `generateStaticParams` is not yet supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`generateStaticParams`](/router/reference/static-rendering/#generatestaticparams) is not yet supported.
```

Let's add a link here.

- HTML `form` integration with Server Actions is not supported yet (this partially works automatically, but data is not encrypted).
- `StyleSheet.create` and `Platform.OS` are not supported on native. Use standard objects for styles and `process.env.EXPO_OS` for platform detection.
- Server Actions that invoke other server actions are not supported on Hermes due to a limitation in the Hermes runtime. This may be resolved with Static Hermes.

## Full React Server Components mode

> This mode is even more experimental!

> You can leverage even more features by enabling full React Server Components support, where the default rendering mode for routes is as server components instead of client components. This mode is still in development as the router and React Navigation need to be rewritten to support concurrency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling full React Server Components support allows you to leverage even more features. In this mode, the default rendering mode for routes is server components instead of client components. It is still in development, as the Router and React Navigation need to be rewritten to support concurrency.
```

There is a typo "as" and let's improve the readability. Also, the router used here is the name of the library, so let's capitalize it.

To enable full Server Components mode, you need to enable the `reactServerComponents` flag in the app config:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "experiments": {
      "reactServerActions": true,
      "reactServerComponents": true
    }
  }
}
```

With this enabled, all routes will render as Server Components by default. In the future this will reduce server/client waterfalls and enable build-time rendering to provide better offline support.

- There is currently no stack routing. The custom layouts, `Stack`, `Tabs`, and `Drawer`, do not support Server Components yet.

> - Most `<Link />` props are not supported yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Most `Link` component props are not supported yet.
```
